CT30A2910 Introduction to Web Programming 

Project work: Phaser Game
Made By: Petra Sjögren
Scoring suggestion:

Feature	Points
There is a clear plot in the game. It has a start and end.	4
There are different (more than 1) objects to collect	2
Gamer needs to use both keyboard and mouse to meaningfully control the player character	4
There are enemies that can hurt the player	3
There is music and sound effects when player shoots/jumps or anything like that	3
Multiple Scenes	2
Different kinds of enemies with different movements and timed to appear with score 	1
Ending and game over scenes with music	1
Visible HP changing and score counter	1
When tested worked with Firefox and Chrome. 	1
Written report. 1

What was done
I choose Phaser game as my final project because I thought it was interesting.
I thought even thought I had no experience about phaser before this course I could come up with something. The Phaser assignment didn’t feel so restrictive as the other ones.
First, I thought I would do side scrolling game, but after one day I gave up.
If I had have more time i could have been able to build a game like that.
Because of that I decided to stay in the range of week 7 assignment and do a dropdown game where enemies are falling.  

The game I made is a spaceship shooter game, that uses mouse to move the spaceship and space to shoot.
The player needs to collect points or defeat the boss to win.
There are three different kinds of enemies in the game. 
Each enemy type is worth a different number of points and moves differently.
Player needs to shoot the enemies to get points. If enemy hits the player the player loses health points and when those reach to zero the game ends.
One of the enemies is a boss that takes more hits to defeat. In addition to that if the boss hits the player the game ends. 
All enemies spawn randomly to the screen to add variation.In addition to enemies there are two different types of gems, that are worth different number of points.
The gems and monsters are designed to spawn after certain number of points are gathered.
In addition to that there are sound effects for collecting gems and shooting to liven up the game.
I would have liked to have background music but all the other sound effects drowned under that.
Also, the game over scene and ending scene has sound.
What was used
Tools:
I used CodeSandbox as my platform. I have used it throughout the whole course, so I decided to stick with what I was familiar with.
I used Draw.io to draw enemies, coins, the spaceship, health bar and all the scene screens. I am familiar with this program, and it was easy to draw .png pictures without background with it. 
For the sound effects I searched free sounds from the internet. All the sound clips are downloaded from https://mixkit.co/free-sound-effects/.
References:
Sound:
How to play sound effects
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SRqKOccMWbc 
bounce of boss 
Followed bomb movement for my boss monster
https://phaser.io/tutorials/making-your-first-phaser-3-game/part10 
scene change
How to change scene
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-BSz_FeWfkY
How to shoot a bullet
How to make a bullet and shoot the bullet from the same location as the spaceship. How to make an object follow mouse. 
https://github.com/photonstorm/phaser3-examples/blob/master/public/src/physics/arcade/bullets%20group.js

